Otto Mattick manages a large warehouse-type space within a controlled environment, his staff historically spends a significant n inordinate amount of time on inventory and asset management.  He is required to keep strict inventory and asset controls that has necessitated verifying the exact location of numerous items several times a day.  When an item cannot be located on one of the mandated periodic checks the ensuing search to locate and document the situation becomes a high priority activity that has the potential of stopping all other ongoing efforts and impacting mission activities and schedule.  At the very least, both the periodic inventories and the resulting searches/responses are a drain on labor hours, distract from mission tasks, and impose a non-mission cost to operations.  Recently, Kamir Qwiq, head of IT wireless communications has implemented a wireless solution that allows Otto to use a mobile tablet to track the accountable items in real time, maintaining inventory throughout the space.  He has tagged the tracked items with an RFID label, and installed RFID readers strategically throughout the space.  In particular, there are RFID readers positioned at the entrance/exit to every room within the space so that every time a tracked items enters or leaves the room its movement generates a record of that change of location.  Further, he also has RFID readers at all the access points to the facility so that they can alert and alarm if a tracked item is inadvertently (or intentionally) removed from the approved area.  Finally, there are specific RFID readers located where the items are stored when not deployed throughout the facility, that serve as the automated, electronic “backup” to manual the check-in/check-out procedures.  Each time an item passes a reader a record of that occurrence is generated and forwarded to the RFID inventory management system where the tracking and inventory software maintains both the current location and the movement records of each item.  Further, the system automatically pulls the locations and inventory for the mandatory periodic reports, sets off an alarm and provides an alert when an item is moved out of its approved area, and records the time each item was checked out or returned to its storage location.